README.md, before:

# dream-postgres-graphql

Combines a few of the features of some of the Dream examples, in particular
`h-sql`, `i-graphql` and `w-postgres`. Accesses the `person` table in a `demo`
database.

The URL `/view` displays an HTML view of everything in the database table. Using
the query query parameters `after` and/or `first` gives a partial Relay-style
pagination. For example, `/view?after=2&first=3` will get the 3rd, 4th and 5th
rows of the table.

The URL `/` displays a GraphiQL interface to a GraphQL schema for the same
table. The `person` query has the same optional `after` and `first` pagination
arguments.

## Files

- `bin/main.ml`: Main program / starting point. This is where you see the Dream
  handler / middleware / router pipeline.

- `lib/person.ml`: Person model

- `lib/sql.ml`: Caqti types and query for fetching people from the database

- `lib/api.ml`: GraphQL schema definition

- `templates/person.eml.html`: HTML/OCaml template for displaying a single
  person as a table row. (A bit like a Jinja2 macro.)

- `templates/page.eml.html`: HTML/OCaml template for the people page

## Limitations

- At the moment the GraphQL path retrieves the whole table and then applies the
  pagination filters afterwards. I'm trying to figure out how to get the GraphQL
  query arguments into the SQL query...

## Install

```
opam install dream
```

There's a Postgres SQL dump file you can use to initialise your database with
the needed tables. (Has a `dream_session` table used internally, as well as the
`person` table accessed by the example.)

## Build

```
dune build
```

## Run

```
dune exec main
```

And then point your browser at <http://localhost:8080>.

Commit message:

Update SQL dump and setup instructions

README.md, after:

# dream-postgres-graphql

Combines a few of the features of some of the Dream examples, in particular
`h-sql`, `i-graphql` and `w-postgres`. Accesses the `person` table in a `demo`
database.

The URL `/view` displays an HTML view of everything in the database table. Using
the query query parameters `after` and/or `first` gives a partial Relay-style
pagination. For example, `/view?after=2&first=3` will get the 3rd, 4th and 5th
rows of the table.

The URL `/` displays a GraphiQL interface to a GraphQL schema for the same
table. The `person` query has the same optional `after` and `first` pagination
arguments.

## Files

- `bin/main.ml`: Main program / starting point. This is where you see the Dream
  handler / middleware / router pipeline.

- `lib/person.ml[i]`: Person model

- `lib/sql.ml[i]`: Caqti types and query for fetching people from the database

- `lib/api.ml[i]`: GraphQL schema definition

- `templates/person.eml.html`: HTML/OCaml template for displaying a single
  person as a table row. (A bit like a Jinja2 macro.)

- `templates/page.eml.html`: HTML/OCaml template for the people page

- `db.sql`: Postgres database dump with schema and data

## Setup

After cloning this repo, do:

```
opam install dream caqti-driver-postgresql
```

Create an empty Postgres database called `demo`, then run

```psql --file=db.sql demo```

and it should create and populate the tables you'll need.

## Build

```
dune build
```

## Run

```
dune exec main
```

And then point your browser at <http://localhost:8080>.
